# Avl Tree VS SkipList

####     As the starting point in this project, an interface was created, which includes four operation of interest. Namely, they are “insertElement”, “removeElement”, “findElement” and “ClosestKeyAfter”. Our goal of the project is to compare the performance of two different implementations of Ordered Dictionary ADT, one using a balanced binary search tree (AVL) and another using Skip Lists.
####     We finished the implementation of the AVL tree and SkipList in the java class “AvlTree”, “AvlTreeNode”, “SkipList” and “SkipListNode”, seperately. These four classes not only contains four operations of interest, but also includes basic methods such as showList, inorderSuccessor and isEmpty, etc. as they are behave to assist to our purpose. Eventually the class OrderedDictionaryAvlTree and OrderedDictionarySkipList inherits from AvlTree and SkipList class, and implements the interface OrderedDictionary.
####     In order to obtain an graph of execution time versus operation times. The operations were performed from 20, 40, 80 all the way up to 163840 rounds, totally 15 points in the graph(as shown in figure 1-4). Worth to mention that the performance 20, 40, 80 160 etc, are representing the nodes numbers as well, since all numbers and operations started out from empty tree/SkipList. For example, if we want to operate remove for 20 times, 20 nodes has to be inserted at the beginning. Therefore the data below not only are used to make the graph, but also indicating the dynamic performance as the nodes increases. 
####     Since the execution time are counted in nano second, we then transfer them in msec as the unit for easier estimation. Besides, execution time jumps largely,  all the data that are shown in table 1 are the average results by repeating the whole procedure three times. Therefore the errors were avoided to some degree.
####     Here we concludes that based on the overall records of four operations implemented in AVL tree and SkipList, AVL tree performs much faster than SkipList. Particularly in figure.3 and table.1(c), AVL tree performs faster than SkipList in a factor 40 when “findElement” operates 163840 times with 163840 nodes.

